---
layout: post
title:  "[Android] JsBridge, JavaScript and Java call each other"
date:   2016-05-29 12:55:00 +0800
categories: Android
---

It's common to show web page using WebView in native App. And there are a few ways to communicate with JavaScript and native code. `JsBridge` is one of the most favourite solutions.

## 1. JavaScript calls Java, Java calls JavaScript
There are 4 approaches to let JavaScript calls Java in Android:
1.JavascriptInterface;
2.WebViewClient.shouldOverrideUrlLoading();
3.WebChromeClient.onConsoleMessage();
4.WebChromeClient.onJsPrompt();

### 1.1 JavascriptInterface
This is the official approach providing by Google.
First, write a class with some kinds of method, which might be called by JavaScript.
{% highlight java%}
public class JavascriptInterface {

    @JavascriptInterface
    public void showToast(String toast) {
        Toast.makeText(MainActivity.this, toast, Toast.LENGTH_SHORT).show();
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

Then, add this class into the WebView with `addJavascriptInterface()` method.
{% highlight java%}
webView.addJavascriptInterface(new JavascriptInterface(), "javascriptInterface");
{% endhighlight %}

Therefore, JavaScript is able to invoke the `showToast()` native method.
{% highlight javascript%}
function showToast(toast) {
    javascript:javascriptInterface.showToast(toast);
}
{% endhighlight %}

However, this official approach has a deadly security issue, until Android 4.2 provides the `@JavascriptInterface` annotation. Considering the lower Android version compability, it's not recommended to use it.

### 1.2 WebViewClient.shouldOverrideUrlLoading()